Add mqtt notify entity (#32327)
home-assistant/home-assistant.github.io: source/_integrations/notify.mqtt.markdown

---
title: "MQTT notify"
description: "Instructions on how to integrate MQTT notify entities into Home Assistant."
ha_category:
  - Notifications
ha_release: 2024.5.0
ha_iot_class: Configurable
ha_domain: mqtt
---

> The `mqtt` notify platform lets you send an MQTT message when the `send_message` service is called. This can be used to expose some service of a remote device, that allows to process a message, e.g. to show it on a screen.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The **MQTT notify** platform lets you send an MQTT message when the `send_message` service is called. This can be used to expose a service of a remote device that allows processing a message, such as showing it on a screen.
```

## Configuration

```yaml
# Example configuration.yaml entry
mqtt:
  - notify:
      command_topic: "home/living_room/status_screen/notifications"
```

{% configuration %}
availability:
  description: A list of MQTT topics subscribed to receive availability (online/offline) updates. Must not be used together with `availability_topic`.
  required: false
  type: list
  keys:
    payload_available:
      description: The payload that represents the available state.
      required: false
      type: string
      default: online
    payload_not_available:
      description: The payload that represents the unavailable state.
      required: false
      type: string
      default: offline
    topic:
      description: An MQTT topic subscribed to receive availability (online/offline) updates.
      required: true
      type: string
    value_template:

>       description: "Defines a [template](/docs/configuration/templating/#using-templates-with-the-mqtt-integration) to extract device's availability from the `topic`. To determine the devices's availability result of this template will be compared to `payload_available` and `payload_not_available`."

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      description: "Defines a [template](/docs/configuration/templating/#using-templates-with-the-mqtt-integration) to extract the device's availability from the `topic`. To determine the device's availability, the result of this template will be compared to `payload_available` and `payload_not_available`."
```

      required: false
      type: template
availability_mode:
  description: When `availability` is configured, this controls the conditions needed to set the entity to `available`. Valid entries are `all`, `any`, and `latest`. If set to `all`, `payload_available` must be received on all configured availability topics before the entity is marked as online. If set to `any`, `payload_available` must be received on at least one configured availability topic before the entity is marked as online. If set to `latest`, the last `payload_available` or `payload_not_available` received on any configured availability topic controls the availability.
  required: false
  type: string
  default: latest
availability_template:

>   description: "Defines a [template](/docs/configuration/templating/#using-templates-with-the-mqtt-integration) to extract device's availability from the `availability_topic`. To determine the devices's availability result of this template will be compared to `payload_available` and `payload_not_available`."

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  description: "Defines a [template](/docs/configuration/templating/#using-templates-with-the-mqtt-integration) to extract the device's availability from the `availability_topic`. To determine the device's availability result, the template will be compared to `payload_available` and `payload_not_available`."
```

  required: false
  type: template
availability_topic:
  description: The MQTT topic subscribed to receive availability (online/offline) updates. Must not be used together with `availability`.
  required: false
  type: string
command_template:
  description: Defines a [template](/docs/configuration/templating/#using-templates-with-the-mqtt-integration) to generate the payload to send to `command_topic`.
  required: false
  type: template
command_topic:
  description: The MQTT topic to publish send message commands at.
  required: false
  type: string
device:

>   description: "Information about the device this notify entity is a part of to tie it into the [device registry](https://developers.home-assistant.io/docs/en/device_registry_index.html). Only works when [`unique_id`](#unique_id) is set. At least one of identifiers or connections must be present to identify the device."

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  description: "Information about the device this notify entity is a part of to tie it into the [device registry](https://developers.home-assistant.io/docs/en/device_registry_index.html). Only works when [`unique_id`](#unique_id) is set. At least one of the identifiers or connections must be present to identify the device."
```

  required: false
  type: map
  keys:
    configuration_url:
      description: 'A link to the webpage that can manage the configuration of this device. Can be either an `http://`, `https://` or an internal `homeassistant://` URL.'
      required: false
      type: string
    connections:

>       description: 'A list of connections of the device to the outside world as a list of tuples `[connection_type, connection_identifier]`. For example the MAC address of a network interface: `"connections": [["mac", "02:5b:26:a8:dc:12"]]`.'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      description: 'A list of connections of the device to the outside world as a list of tuples `[connection_type, connection_identifier]`. For example, the MAC address of a network interface: `"connections": [["mac", "02:5b:26:a8:dc:12"]]`.'
```

      required: false
      type: list
    hw_version:
      description: The hardware version of the device.
      required: false
      type: string
    identifiers:

>       description: A list of IDs that uniquely identify the device. For example a serial number.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      description: A list of IDs that uniquely identify the device. For example, a serial number.
```
